% Perl 6 Tablet 0 - History

> "Perl 5 was my rewrite of Perl. I want Perl 6 to be the community's
> rewrite of Perl and of the community." -- Larry Wall


Why Perl 6?
===========

Back in the year 2000, things didn't look so good. The buzz around
Perl was gone, because everybody had decent Regexes, even if theirs
were not as tightly integrated as in Perl. And many of the other Perl
5 features could be also found in Python or Ruby. Naturally, also, new
shiny things appeared in mainstream languages that couldn't so easily
be pasted into Perl. The Perl syntax, especially for Regexes, is very
rich, therefore you could hardly add something in a meaningful manner
without changing a handful of others. Some features like "do {}
while"-loops were just bolted on and other feature could not even be
plugged in. A complete revamp was also more and more necessary because
things like OOP and missing signatures made problems for Perl
beginners. Other things like formats just had to move out of the
interpreter into a module because they weren't as important as in
the early days. And finally a lot of cruft had also to go, syntax that
was deprecated since Perl 5.0 like the ol' package'sub syntax.


Many of these issues could be dealt with in the Perl 5 arena, and are
recently done by the way. But if you look at the perl
internals, you see a speed racer - highly tuned but with a lot of
dirty tricks your CS-prof would't like. In that magic world were many
things mingled together invisibly, making it really hard to
bring in some changes. And even that would have some
natural limits. Some nice features like lispish macros, which are
powerful and much cleaner and faster in execution than Perl 5
sourcefilters and a nice XS replacement, which would largely ease
Perl's extensibility, are impossible to achieve with that codebase. It
would be a complete rewrite anyway.

But it was not only the language and his interpreter, but also perl people
themself needed some new toy. Something to brim over with enthusiasm
for. Perl 5 just worked, which is good, but sometimes boring if there
is not much you expect to happen. Especially if there are problem like
described above. And Larry had the strong feeling that the Perl
community had to open up anyway.

So it had to be a complete new language with a brand new interpreter
and Perl would be again the most cuddlesome thing around. As the Perl
1 manpage tells you: Perl was always about having all the cool
features of other languages in one place. That isn't for the purpose
of bling-bling. (You couldn't brag with lazy evaluated arrays in a hip
hop video anyway) But it's about getting the task done the way you
prefer, so only the very best could be enough.



How it all started
==================

The initiative to develop Perl 6 in a process run by the Perl
community was announced at the fourth Perl Conference on July 19th,
2000.



Parrot
======

  * Perl 6
  * Parrot
  * Ponie
  * PCT
  * NQP
  * Rakudo
  * Pugs
  * elf
  * SMOP
  * mildew/mold
  * mp6
  * kp6
  * v6
  * MAD
  * STD
  * sprixel
  * gimme5
  * niecza

Even the brave and higly skilled pumping nicholas the first wrote in
the p5p list that in the regex engine were dragons he was afraid to
wake up.

***
